<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-man-who-was-no-16" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>XXIII</h2>
				<h3>The Man Who Was <abbr>No.</abbr> 16</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Tommy and Tuppence were closeted with the Chief in his private room. His commendation had been warm and sincere.</p>
			<p>“You have succeeded admirably. Thanks to you we have laid our hands on no less than five very interesting personages, and from them we have received much valuable information. Meanwhile I learn from a creditable source that headquarters in Moscow have taken alarm at the failure of their agents to report. I think, that in spite of all our precautions, they have begun to suspect that all is not well at what I may call the distributing centre⁠—the office of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Theodore Blunt⁠—the International Detective Bureau.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Tommy. “I suppose they were bound to tumble to it sometime or other, sir.”</p>
			<p>“As you say, it was only to be expected. But I am a little worried⁠—about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Tommy.”</p>
			<p>“I can look after her all right, sir,” said Tommy, at exactly the same minute as Tuppence said, “I can take care of myself.”</p>
			<p>“H’m,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter. “Excessive self-confidence was always a characteristic of you two. Whether your immunity is entirely due to your own superhuman cleverness, or whether a small percentage of luck creeps in, I’m not prepared to say. But luck changes, you know. However, I won’t argue the point. From my extensive knowledge of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Tommy, I suppose it’s quite useless to ask her to keep out of the limelight for the next week or two?”</p>
			<p>Tuppence shook her head very energetically.</p>
			<p>“Then all I can do is to give you all the information that I can. We have reason to believe that a special agent has been despatched from Moscow to this country. We don’t know what name he is travelling under, we don’t know when he will arrive. But we do know something about him. He is a man who gave us great trouble in the War, a ubiquitous kind of fellow who turned up all over the place where we least wanted him. He is a Russian by birth, and an accomplished linguist⁠—so much so that he can pass as half a dozen other nationalities, including our own. He is also a past master in the art of disguise. And he has brains. It was he who devised the <abbr>No.</abbr> 16 code.</p>
			<p>“When and how he will turn up, I do not know. But I am fairly certain that he <i>will</i> turn up. We do know this⁠—he was not personally acquainted with the real <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Theodore Blunt. I think that he will turn up at your office, on the pretext of a case which he will wish you to take up, and will try you with the passwords. The first, as you know, is the mention of the number sixteen⁠—which is replied to by a sentence containing the same number. The second, which we have only just learnt, is an inquiry as to whether you have ever crossed the Channel. The answer to that is: ‘I was in Berlin on the 13th of last month.’ As far as we know, that is all. I would suggest that you reply correctly, and so endeavor to gain his confidence. Sustain the fiction if you possibly can. But even if he appears to be completely deceived, remain on your guard. Our friend is particularly astute, and can play a double game as well, or better, than you can. But in either case, I hope to get him through you. From this day forward I am adopting special precautions. A dictaphone was installed last night in your office, so that one of my men in the room below will be able to hear everything that passes in your office. In this way, I shall be immediately informed if anything arises, and can take the necessary steps to safeguard you and your wife whilst securing the man I am after.”</p>
			<p>After a few more instructions, and a general discussion of tactics, the two young people departed, and made their way as rapidly as possible to the office of Blunt’s Brilliant Detectives.</p>
			<p>“It’s late,” said Tommy, looking at his watch. “Just on twelve o’clock. We’ve been a long time with the Chief. I hope we haven’t missed a particularly spicy case.”</p>
			<p>“On the whole,” said Tuppence, “we’ve not done badly. I was tabulating results the other day. We’ve solved four baffling murder mysteries, rounded up a gang of counterfeiters, ditto gang of smugglers⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Actually two gangs,” interpolated Tommy. “So we have! I’m glad of that. ‘Gangs’ sounds so professional.”</p>
			<p>Tuppence continued, ticking off the items on her fingers.</p>
			<p>“One jewel robbery, two escapes from violent death, one case of missing lady reducing her figure, one young girl befriended, an alibi successfully exploded, and alas! one case where we made utter fools of ourselves. On the whole, jolly good! We’re <i>very</i> clever, I think.”</p>
			<p>“You would think so,” said Tommy. “You always do. Now I have a secret feeling that once or twice we’ve been rather lucky.”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” said Tuppence. “All done by the little grey cells.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I was damned lucky once,” said Tommy. “The day that Albert did his lasso act! But you speak, Tuppence, as though it was all over?”</p>
			<p>“So it is,” said Tuppence. She lowered her voice impressively. “This is our last case. When they have laid the super spy by the heels, the great detectives intend to retire and take to bee keeping or vegetable-marrow growing. It’s always done.”</p>
			<p>“Tired of it, eh?”</p>
			<p>“Ye‑es, I think I am. Besides, we’re so successful now⁠—the luck might change.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s talking about luck now?” asked Tommy triumphantly.</p>
			<p>At that moment they turned in at the doorway of the block of buildings in which the International Detective Bureau had its offices, and Tuppence did not reply.</p>
			<p>Albert was on duty in the outer office, employing his leisure in balancing, or endeavoring to balance, the office ruler upon his nose.</p>
			<p>With a stern frown of reproof, the great <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blunt passed into his own private office. Divesting himself of his overcoat and hat, he opened the cupboard, on the shelves of which reposed his classic library of the great detectives of fiction.</p>
			<p>“The choice narrows,” murmured Tommy. “On whom shall I model myself to-day?”</p>
			<p>Tuppence’s voice, with an unusual note in it, made him turn sharply.</p>
			<p>“Tommy,” she said. “What day of the month is it?”</p>
			<p>“Let me see⁠—the eleventh⁠—why?”</p>
			<p>“Look at the calendar.”</p>
			<p>Hanging on the wall was one of those calendars from which you tear a leaf every day. It bore the legend of Sunday the 16th. To-day was Monday.</p>
			<p>“By Jove, that’s odd. Albert must have torn off too many. Careless little devil.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe he did,” said Tuppence. “But we’ll ask him.”</p>
			<p>Albert, summoned and questioned, seemed very astonished. He swore he had only torn off one leaf⁠—that of the day before. His statement was presently supported, for whereas the leaf torn off by Albert was found in the grate, the succeeding ones were lying neatly in the waste paper basket.</p>
			<p>“A neat and methodical criminal,” said Tommy. “Who’s been here this morning, Albert? A client of any kind?”</p>
			<p>“Just one, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What was he like?”</p>
			<p>“It was a she. A Hospital Nurse. Very upset and anxious to see you. Said she’d wait until you came. I put her in ‘Clerks’ because it was warmer.”</p>
			<p>“And from there she could walk in here, of course, without your seeing her. How long has she been gone?”</p>
			<p>“About half an hour, sir. Said she’d call again this afternoon. A nice motherly looking body.”</p>
			<p>“A nice motherly⁠—oh! get out, Albert.”</p>
			<p>Albert withdrew, injured.</p>
			<p>“Queer start, that,” said Tommy. “It seems a little purposeless. Puts us on our guard. I suppose there isn’t a bomb concealed in the fireplace or anything of that kind?”</p>
			<p>He reassured himself on that point, then he seated himself at the desk and addressed Tuppence.</p>
			<p>“Mon ami,” he said. “We are here faced with a matter of the utmost gravity. You recall, do you not, the man who was <abbr>No.</abbr> 4. Him whom I crushed like an egg shell in the Dolomites⁠—with the aid of high explosives, <i>bien entendu</i>. But he was not really dead⁠—ah! no, they are never really dead, these super criminals. This is the man⁠—but even more so, if I may so put it. He is the 4 squared⁠—in other words, he is now the <abbr>No.</abbr> 16. You comprehend, my friend?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly,” said Tuppence. “You are the great Hercule Poirot.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. No moustaches, but lots of grey cells.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve a feeling,” said Tuppence, “that this particular adventure will be called the ‘Triumph of Hastings.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Never,” said Tommy. “It isn’t done. Once the idiot friend, always the idiot friend. There’s an etiquette in these matters. By the way, mon ami, can you not part your hair in the middle instead of one side? The present effect is unsymmetrical and deplorable.”</p>
			<p>The buzzer rang sharply on Tommy’s desk. He returned the signal and Albert appeared bearing a card.</p>
			<p>“Prince Vladiroffsky,” read Tommy, in a low voice. He looked at Tuppence. “I wonder⁠—Show him in, Albert.”</p>
			<p>The man who entered was of middle height, graceful in bearing, with a fair beard, and apparently about thirty-five years of age.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blunt?” he inquired. His English was perfect. “You have been most highly recommended to me. Will you take up a case for me?”</p>
			<p>“If you will give me the details⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. It concerns the daughter of a friend of mine⁠—a girl of sixteen. We are anxious for no scandal⁠—you understand.”</p>
			<p>“My dear sir,” said Tommy. “This business has been running successfully for sixteen years owing to our strict attention to that particular principle.”</p>
			<p>He fancied he saw a sudden gleam in the other’s eye. If so, it passed as quickly as it came.</p>
			<p>“You have branches, I believe, on the other side of the Channel?”</p>
			<p>“Oh! yes. As a matter of fact,” he brought out the word with great deliberation, “I myself was in Berlin on the 13th of last month.”</p>
			<p>“In that case,” said the stranger, “it is hardly necessary to keep up the little fiction. The daughter of my friend can be conveniently dismissed. You know who I am⁠—at any rate I see you have had warning of my coming.”</p>
			<p>He nodded towards the calendar on the wall.</p>
			<p>“Quite so,” said Tommy.</p>
			<p>“My friends⁠—I have come over here to investigate matters. What has been happening?”</p>
			<p>“Treachery,” said Tuppence, no longer able to remain quiescent.</p>
			<p>The Russian shifted his attention to her, and raised his eyebrows.</p>
			<p>“Ah ha, that is so, is it? I thought as much. Was it Sergius?”</p>
			<p>“We think so,” said Tuppence unblushingly.</p>
			<p>“It would not surprise me. But you yourselves, you are under no suspicion?”</p>
			<p>“I do not think so. We handle a good deal of <i>bona fide</i> business, you see,” explained Tommy.</p>
			<p>The Russian nodded.</p>
			<p>“That is wise. All the same, I think it would be better if I did not come here again. For the moment, I am staying at the Blitz. I will take Marise⁠—this is Marise, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>Tuppence nodded.</p>
			<p>“What is she known as here?”</p>
			<p>“Oh! Miss Robinson.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, Miss Robinson, you will return with me to the Blitz and lunch with me there. We will all meet at headquarters at three o’clock. Is that clear?” He looked at Tommy.</p>
			<p>“Perfectly clear,” replied Tommy, wondering where on earth headquarters might be.</p>
			<p>But he guessed that it was just those very headquarters that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter was so anxious to discover.</p>
			<p>Tuppence rose and slipped on her long black coat with its leopardskin collar. Then, demurely, she declared herself ready to accompany the Prince.</p>
			<p>They went out together, and Tommy was left behind, a prey to conflicting emotions.</p>
			<p>Supposing something had gone wrong with the dictaphone? Supposing the mysterious Hospital Nurse had somehow or other learnt of its installation, and had rendered it useless?</p>
			<p>He seized the telephone and called a certain number. There was a moment’s delay, and then a well known voice spoke.</p>
			<p>“Quite OK.” Come round to the Blitz at once.”</p>
			<p>Five minutes later Tommy and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter met in the Palm Court of the Blitz. The latter was crisp and reassuring.</p>
			<p>“You’ve done excellently. The Prince and the little lady are at lunch in the Restaurant. I’ve got two of my men in there as waiters. Whether he suspects, or whether he doesn’t⁠—and I’m fairly sure he doesn’t⁠—we’ve got him on toast. There are two men posted upstairs to watch his suite, and more outside ready to follow wherever they go. Don’t be worried about your wife. She’ll be kept in sight the whole time. I’m not going to run any risks.”</p>
			<p>Occasionally one of the Secret Service men came to report progress. The first time it was a waiter who took their orders for cocktails, the second time it was a fashionable vacant-faced young man.</p>
			<p>“They’re coming out,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter. “We’ll retire behind this pillar in case they sit down here, but I fancy he’ll take her up to his suite. Ah! yes, I thought so.”</p>
			<p>From their post of vantage, Tommy saw the Russian and Tuppence cross the hall and enter the lift.</p>
			<p>The minutes passed and Tommy began to fidget.</p>
			<p>“Do you think, sir. I mean, alone in that suite⁠—”</p>
			<p>“One of my men’s inside⁠—behind the sofa. Don’t worry, man.”</p>
			<p>A waiter crossed the hall and came up to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter.</p>
			<p>“Got the signal they were coming up, sir⁠—but they haven’t come. Is it all right?”</p>
			<p>“What?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter spun around. “I saw them go into the lift myself. Just”⁠—he glanced up at the clock⁠—“four and a half minutes ago. And they haven’t shown up.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He hurried across to the lift which had just that minute come down again, and spoke to the uniformed attendant.</p>
			<p>“You took up a gentleman with a fair beard and a young lady a few minutes ago to the second floor.”</p>
			<p>“Not the second floor. Third floor the gentleman asked for.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” The Chief jumped in, motioning Tommy to accompany him. “Take us up to the third floor, please.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand this,” he murmured in a low voice. “But keep calm. Every exit from the Hotel is watched, and I’ve got a man on the third floor as well⁠—on every floor, in fact. I was taking no chances.”</p>
			<p>The lift door opened on the third floor and they sprang out, hurrying down the corridor. Half way along it, a man dressed as a waiter came to meet them.</p>
			<p>“It’s all right, Chief. They’re in <abbr>No.</abbr> 318.”</p>
			<p>Carter breathed a sigh of relief.</p>
			<p>“That’s all right. No other exit?”</p>
			<p>“It’s a suite, but there are only these two doors into the corridor, and to get out from any of these rooms, they’d have to pass us to get to the staircase or the lifts.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, then. Just telephone down and find out who is supposed to be occupying this suite.”</p>
			<p>The waiter returned in a minute or two.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cortlandt Van Snyder of Detroit.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter became very thoughtful.</p>
			<p>“I wonder now. Is this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder an accomplice, or is she⁠—”</p>
			<p>He left the sentence unfinished.</p>
			<p>“Hear any noise from inside?” he asked abruptly.</p>
			<p>“Not a thing. But the doors fit well. One couldn’t hope to hear much.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter made up his mind suddenly.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like this business. We’re going in. Got the master key?”</p>
			<p>“Of course, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Call up Evans and Clydesly.”</p>
			<p>Reinforced by the other two men, they advanced towards the door of the suite. It opened noiselessly when the first man inserted his key.</p>
			<p>They found themselves in a small hall. To the right was the open door of a bathroom, and in front of them was the sitting-room. On the left was a closed door and from behind it a faint sound⁠—rather like an asthmatic pug⁠—could be heard. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter pushed the door open and entered.</p>
			<p>The room was a bedroom, with a big double bed ornately covered with a bedspread of rose and gold. On it, bound hand and foot, with her mouth secured by a gag and her eyes almost starting out of her head with pain and rage, was a middle-aged fashionably-dressed woman.</p>
			<p>On a brief order from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter, the other men had covered the whole suite. Only Tommy and his Chief had entered the bedroom. As he leant over the bed and strove to unfasten the knots, Carter’s eyes went roving round the room in perplexity. Save for an immense quantity of truly American luggage, the room was empty. There was no sign of the Russian or Tuppence.</p>
			<p>In another minute the waiter came hurrying in, and reported that the other rooms were also empty. Tommy went to the window, only to draw back and shake his head. There was no balcony⁠—nothing but a sheer drop to the street below.</p>
			<p>“Certain it was this room they entered?” asked Carter peremptorily.</p>
			<p>“Sure. Besides⁠—” The man indicated the woman on the bed.</p>
			<p>With the aid of a pen knife, Carter parted the scarf that was half choking her, and it was at once clear that whatever her sufferings, they had not deprived <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cortlandt Van Snyder of the use of her tongue.</p>
			<p>When she had exhausted her first indignation, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter spoke mildly.</p>
			<p>“Would you mind telling me exactly what happened⁠—from the beginning?”</p>
			<p>“I guess I’ll sue the Hotel for this. It’s a perfect outrage. I was just looking for my bottle of ‘Killagrippe’ when a man sprang on me from behind and broke a little glass bottle right under my nose, and before I could get my breath I was all in. When I came to I was lying here, all trussed up, and goodness knows what’s happened to my jewels. He’s gotten the lot, I guess.”</p>
			<p>“Your jewels are quite safe, I fancy,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter drily. He wheeled round and picked up something from the floor. “You were standing just where I am when he sprang upon you?”</p>
			<p>“That’s so,” assented <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder.</p>
			<p>It was a fragment of thin glass that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter had picked up. He sniffed it and handed it to Tommy.</p>
			<p>“Ethyl Chloride,” he murmured. “Instant anaesthetic. But it only keeps one under for a moment or two. Surely he must still have been in the room when you came to, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder?”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t that just what I’m telling you? Oh! it drove me half crazy to see him getting away and me not able to move or do anything at all.”</p>
			<p>“Getting away?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter sharply. “Which way?”</p>
			<p>“Through that door.” She pointed to one in the opposite wall. “He had a girl with him, but she seemed kind of limp as though she’d had a dose of the same dope.”</p>
			<p>Carter looked a question at his henchman.</p>
			<p>“Leads into the next suite, sir. But double doors⁠—supposed to be bolted each side.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter examined the door carefully. Then he straightened himself up and turned towards the bed.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder,” he said quietly. “Do you still persist in your assertion that the man went out this way?”</p>
			<p>“Why, certainly he did. Why shouldn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Because the door happens to be bolted on this side,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter drily. He rattled the handle as he spoke.</p>
			<p>A look of the utmost astonishment spread over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder’s face.</p>
			<p>“Unless someone bolted the door behind him,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter, “he cannot have gone out that way.”</p>
			<p>He turned to Evans who had just entered the room.</p>
			<p>“Sure they’re not anywhere in this suite? Any other communicating doors?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, and I’m quite sure.”</p>
			<p>Carter turned his gaze this way and that about the room. He opened the big hanging wardrobe, looked under the bed, up the chimney and behind all the curtains. Finally, struck by a sudden idea, and disregarding <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder’s shrill protests, he opened the large wardrobe trunk and rummaged swiftly in the interior.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Tommy, who had been examining the communicating door, gave an exclamation.</p>
			<p>“Come here, sir, look at this. They did go this way.”</p>
			<p>The bolt had been very cleverly filed through, so close to the socket that the join was hardly perceptible.</p>
			<p>“The door won’t open because it’s locked on the other side,” explained Tommy.</p>
			<p>In another minute they were out in the corridor again and the waiter was opening the door of the adjoining suite with his pass key. This suite was untenanted. When they came to the communicating door, they saw that the same plan had been adopted. The bolt had been filed through, and the door was locked, the key having been removed. But nowhere in the suite was there any sign of Tuppence or the fair-bearded Russian, and there was no other communicating door, only the one on the corridor.</p>
			<p>“But I’d have seen them come out,” protested the waiter. “I couldn’t have helped seeing them. I can take my oath they never did.”</p>
			<p>“Damn it all,” cried Tommy. “They can’t have vanished into thin air!”</p>
			<p>Carter was calm again now, his keen brain working.</p>
			<p>“Telephone down and find who had this suite last, and when.”</p>
			<p>Evans, who had come with them, leaving Clydesly on guard in the other suite, obeyed. Presently he raised his head from the telephone.</p>
			<p>“An invalid French lad, M. Paul de Varez. He had a Hospital Nurse with him. They left this morning.”</p>
			<p>An exclamation burst from the other Secret Service man, the waiter. He had gone deathly pale.</p>
			<p>“The invalid boy⁠—the Hospital Nurse,” he stammered. “I⁠—they passed me in the passage. I never dreamed⁠—I had seen them so often before.”</p>
			<p>“Are you sure they were the same?” cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter. “Are you sure, man? You looked at them well?”</p>
			<p>The man shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I hardly glanced at them. I was waiting, you understand, on the alert for the others, the man with the fair beard and the girl.”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter, with a groan. “They counted on that.”</p>
			<p>With a sudden exclamation, Tommy stooped down and pulled something out from under the sofa. It was a small rolled up bundle of black. Tommy unrolled it and several articles fell out. The outside wrapper was the long black coat Tuppence had worn that day. Inside was her walking dress, her hat and a long fair beard.</p>
			<p>“It’s clear enough now,” he said bitterly. “They’ve got her⁠—got Tuppence. That Russian devil has given us the slip. The Hospital Nurse and the boy were accomplices. They stayed here for a day or two to get the Hotel people accustomed to their presence. The man must have realised at lunch that he was trapped and proceeded to carry out his plan. Probably he counted on the room next door being empty since it was when he fixed the bolts. Anyway he managed to silence both the woman next door and Tuppence, brought her in here, dressed her in boy’s clothes, altered his own appearance, and walked out as bold as brass. The clothes must have been hidden ready. But I don’t quite see how he managed Tuppence’s acquiescence.”</p>
			<p>“I can see,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter. He picked up a little shining piece of steel from the carpet. “That’s a fragment of a hypodermic needle. She was doped.”</p>
			<p>“My God!” groaned Tommy. “And he’s got clear away.”</p>
			<p>“We won’t know that,” said Carter quickly. “Remember every exit is watched.”</p>
			<p>“For a man and a girl. Not for a Hospital Nurse and an invalid boy. They’ll have left the Hotel by now.”</p>
			<p>Such, on inquiry, proved to be the case. The nurse and her patient had driven away in a taxi some five minutes earlier.</p>
			<p>“Look here, Beresford,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carter. “For God’s sake, pull yourself together. You know that I won’t leave a stone unturned to find that girl. I’m going back to my office at once and in less than five minutes every resource of the department will be at work. We’ll get them yet.”</p>
			<p>“Will you, sir? He’s a clever devil, that Russian. Look at the cunning of this coup of his. But I know you’ll do your best. Only⁠—pray God it’s not too late. They’ve got it in for us badly.”</p>
			<p>He left the Blitz Hotel and walked blindly along the street, hardly knowing where he was going. He felt completely paralyzed. Where to search? What to do?</p>
			<p>He went into the Green Park, and dropped down upon a seat. He hardly noticed when someone else sat down at the opposite end, and was quite startled to hear a well known voice.</p>
			<p>“If you please, sir, if I might make so bold⁠—”</p>
			<p>Tommy looked up.</p>
			<p>“Hullo, Albert,” he said dully.</p>
			<p>“I know all about it, sir⁠—but don’t take on so.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t take on⁠—” He gave a short laugh. “Easily said, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, but think, sir. Blunt’s Brilliant Detectives! Never beaten. And if you’ll excuse my saying so, I happen to overhear what you and the Missus was ragging about this morning. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Poirot, and his little grey cells. Well, sir, why not use your little grey cells, and see what you can do?”</p>
			<p>“It’s easier to use your little grey cells in fiction than it is in fact, my boy.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Albert stoutly, “I don’t believe anybody could put the Missus out, for good and all. You know what she is, sir, just like one of those rubber bones you buy for little dogs⁠—guaranteed indestructible.”</p>
			<p>“Albert,” said Tommy, “you cheer me.”</p>
			<p>“Then what about using your little grey cells, sir?”</p>
			<p>“You’re a persistent lad, Albert. Playing the fool has served us pretty well up to now. We’ll try it again. Let us arrange our facts neatly, and with method. At ten minutes past two exactly, our quarry enters the lift. Five minutes later we speak to the lift man, and having heard what he says, we also go up to the third floor. At, say, nineteen minutes past two we enter the suite of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder. And now, what significant fact strikes us?”</p>
			<p>There was a pause, no significant fact striking either of them.</p>
			<p>“There wasn’t such a thing as a trunk in the room, was there?” asked Albert, his eyes lighting suddenly.</p>
			<p>“Mon ami,” said Tommy. “You do not understand the psychology of an American woman who has just returned from Paris. There were, I should say, about nineteen trunks in the room.”</p>
			<p>“What I meantersay is, a trunk’s a handy thing if you’ve got a dead body about you want to get rid of⁠—not that she <i>is</i> dead, for a minute.”</p>
			<p>“We searched the only two that were big enough to contain a body. What is the next fact in chronological order?”</p>
			<p>“You’ve missed one out⁠—when the Missus and the bloke dressed up as a Hospital Nurse passed the waiter in the passage.”</p>
			<p>“It must have been just before we came up in the lift,” said Tommy. “They must have had a narrow escape of meeting us face to face. Pretty quick work, that. I⁠—”</p>
			<p>He stopped.</p>
			<p>“What is it, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Be silent, mon ami. I have the kind of little idea⁠—colossal, stupendous⁠—that always comes sooner or later to Hercule Poirot. But if so⁠—if that’s it⁠—Oh! Lord, I hope I’m in time.”</p>
			<p>He raced out of the Park, Albert hard on his heels, inquiring breathlessly as he ran. “What’s up, sir? I don’t understand.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right,” said Tommy. “You’re not supposed to. Hastings never did. If your grey cells weren’t of a very inferior order to mine, what fun do you think I should get out of this game? I’m talking damned rot⁠—but I can’t help it. You’re a good lad, Albert. You know what Tuppence is worth⁠—she’s worth a dozen of you and me.”</p>
			<p>Thus talking breathlessly as he ran, Tommy reëntered the portals of the Blitz. He caught sight of Evans, and drew him aside with a few hurried words. The two men entered the lift, Albert with them.</p>
			<p>“Third floor,” said Tommy.</p>
			<p>At the door of <abbr>No.</abbr> 318 they paused. Evans had a pass key, and used it forthwith. Without a word of warning, they walked straight into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder’s bedroom. The lady was still lying on the bed, but was now arrayed in a becoming negligee. She stared at them in surprise.</p>
			<p>“Pardon my failure to knock,” said Tommy, pleasantly. “But I want my wife. Do you mind getting off that bed?”</p>
			<p>“I guess you’ve gone plumb crazy,” cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder.</p>
			<p>Tommy surveyed her thoughtfully, his head on one side.</p>
			<p>“Very artistic,” he pronounced. “But it won’t do. We looked <i>under</i> the bed⁠—but not <i>in</i> it. I remember using that hiding-place myself when young. Horizontally across the bed, underneath the bolster. And that nice wardrobe trunk all ready to take away the body in later. But we were a bit too quick for you just now. You’d had time to dope Tuppence, put her under the bolster, and be gagged and bound by your accomplices next door, and I’ll admit we swallowed your story all right for the moment. But when one came to think it out⁠—with order and method⁠—impossible to drug a girl, dress her in boy’s clothes, gag and bind another woman, and change one’s own appearance⁠—all in five minutes. Simply a physical impossibility. The Hospital Nurse and the boy were to be a decoy. We were to follow that trail, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder was to be a pitied victim. Just help the lady off the bed, will you, Evans? You have your automatic? Good.”</p>
			<p>Protesting shrilly, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder was hauled from her place of repose. Tommy tore off the coverings and the bolster.</p>
			<p>There, lying horizontally across the top of the bed was Tuppence, her eyes closed, and her face waxen. For a moment, Tommy felt a sudden dread, then he saw the slight rise and fall of her breast. She was drugged, not dead.</p>
			<p>He turned to Albert and Evans.</p>
			<p>“And now, Messieurs,” he said dramatically. “The final <i>coup</i>!”</p>
			<p>With a swift unexpected gesture, he seized <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Van Snyder by her elaborately dressed hair. It came off in his hand.</p>
			<p>“As I thought,” said Tommy. “<i>No.</i> 16!”</p>
			<p>It was about half an hour later when Tuppence opened her eyes and found a doctor and Tommy bending over her.</p>
			<p>Over the events of the next quarter of an hour a decent veil had better be drawn, but after that period the doctor departed with the assurance that all was now well.</p>
			<p>“Mon ami, Hastings,” said Tommy fondly. “How I rejoice that you are still alive.”</p>
			<p>“Have we got <abbr>No.</abbr> 16?”</p>
			<p>“Once more have I crushed him like an egg shell⁠—In other words, Carter’s got him. The little grey cells! By the way, I’m raising Albert’s wages.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me all about it.”</p>
			<p>Tommy gave her a spirited narrative, with certain omissions.</p>
			<p>“Weren’t you half frantic about me?” asked Tuppence faintly.</p>
			<p>“Not particularly. One must keep calm, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Liar!” said Tuppence. “You look quite haggard still.”</p>
			<p>“Well, perhaps I was just a little worried, darling. I say⁠—we’re going to give it up now, aren’t we?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly we are.”</p>
			<p>Tommy gave a sigh of relief.</p>
			<p>“I hoped you’d be sensible. After a shock like this⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It’s not the shock. You know I never mind shocks.”</p>
			<p>“A rubber bone⁠—indestructible,” murmured Tommy.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got something better to do,” continued Tuppence. “Something ever so much more exciting. Something I’ve never done before.”</p>
			<p>Tommy looked at her with lively apprehension.</p>
			<p>“I forbid it, Tuppence.”</p>
			<p>“You can’t,” said Tuppence. “It’s a law of nature.”</p>
			<p>“What are you talking about, Tuppence?”</p>
			<p>“I’m talking,” said Tuppence, “of Our Baby. Wives don’t whisper nowadays. They shout. OUR BABY! Tommy, isn’t everything marvellous?”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
